Right now that you've learned about classes and functions let's take a look at how inheritance works
in Katlin.
Now there's nothing new in terms of what you can do but there are some important differences between
Cartland and Java.
Now as I've mentioned several times before you're probably getting tired of hearing me say this.
Everything in Katlin is public and final by default.
That goes for classes top level functions member functions and properties.
Recall that in Java you have to explicitly include the final keyword when you want something to be final.
But you don't have to do that in Katlin.
So with that in mind let's create a new intelligent project I've been doing this off screen for the
last few videos but I'll quickly do it here.
So we'll have a new project called lean on the left Cartland on the right and I'll call this project
inheritance.
And since I'll open it in this window and I'll create the usual package.
I can only learn programming on inheritance.
Now I'm going to create a class called printer and I'll select class so I don't have to type in word
class and we'll call it printer.
All right so now let's create a class called laser printer that extends printer.
Now to extend the class in Codlin you follow the class named by a colon and then you follow that with
the name of the class you want to extend so well say class laser printer.
That's the name of our class Colin.
And then we want to extend printer.
Now we're going to get two errors here.
First error says this type has a constructor.
The second error says this type is final so it cannot be inherited from remember printer because we
didn't specify an access modifier is Puplick and final by default.
So as it stands now we can't extend this class.
Now obviously we want printer to be extendable And so to tell the compiler that we want classes to be
able to extend it we use the open keyword.
And so we're going to add open here and now we'll see that the error about the class being final has
gone away.
So that's one problem solved.
You'll also see that intelligence has an indicator here in the gutter now that tells us that the printer
class has been subclassed by laser printer.
All right but we still have the problem with the constructor and this error is telling us that we're
not calling the superclasses constructor.
Now we didn't specify a primary constructor here but obviously there's still a constructor being generated
under the covers.
It'll just be the default constructor that doesn't accept any parameters and doesn't do anything and
the subclass has to call that constructor.
Now we could go like this.
We can say all right we'll just add an empty you know primary constructor here and then well we can
do this without a constructor here and there we go.
We fix that.
But if we really really didn't want a primary constructor we could also go like this.
We'd say constructor and then we want to defer to the super constructor so we just put a call in and
say super.
And so this is another way of doing it if we don't want a primary constructor even an empty one that
does nothing.
We just add a secondary constructor and all it does basically is defer to super.
But we're going to add a primary constructor so we might as well go ahead and add a primary constructor.
OK.
So we've handled our two errors so let's add a model name property to printer all printers will have
a model name so we'll add it to the superclass So we'll save our model name and we'll make it a string.
And the moment we do that of course we're going to get an error because we're not delegating to the
primary constructor anymore from the subclass.
So we'll go ahead and do that.
Well except a model name parameter and we'll delegate the handling of that to the primary constructor.
All right so far so good.
Now the printer class doesn't represent one specific model of a printer.
So I'm going to make this class abstract.
So now we've got an abstract class and we have one subclass.
Now there is kind of a redundancy in our code here.
Can you see what it is.
I'll just give you a few seconds to take a look and see is there something here that we can remove because
it's sort of redundant.
Now if you're looking at this and you're thinking well abstract classes have to be extended right.
Otherwise they're kind of useless.
So do we have to tell the compiler that this class is not final.
Well no we don't.
Because it is redundant and you can see right here a modifier open is redundant because abstract is
present.
So in this case because it's an abstract class we can actually take away the open keyword because there's
no point in having an abstract class that can't be extended.
Mean never going to be able to do anything with it.
So Katlin once again in the interest of conciseness you don't have to use the open keyword with abstract
classes.
Now you'll notice that the indicator in the gutter also went away.
I'm not sure if that's an intentional or if it's a bug because I mean you still have this class extending
it but the indicator went away.
All right so let's add a function to the printer class that prints the string.
The model name for this printer is whatever the model name is.
So will say fine print model equals print line.
The model name this printer is and it'll just be model name.
Now it's perfectly OK to have non abstract functions with an abstract classes.
So we're not doing anything wrong here.
Now let's create a main method so we can actually start playing around with these.
So we'll see.
Main hit enter and we'll create a laser printer so we'll save the laser printer equals laser printer
and we'll just say it's a brother and a no.
1 2 3 4 have a brother sitting on my desk that's one sort of brother and then we'll we'll call different
model functions so laser printer Daut print model.
Let's run
and we get the model name of this printer is brother one two 3 4.
That's fine.
We weren't expecting any errors.
OK but let's say for laser printers we want to print out the model name differently so we don't want
to use the superclasses implementation of print model.
OK so we're going to override the print model function in the superclass So we're going to say fine
print model equals for laser printers we're going to say print line the model name of this laser printer
is model name.
I know this is kind of a stupid example but it serves our purpose.
Now we're going to get an error here that says print model hides member of super tight printer and needs
the override modifier.
So in other words we're not actually overwriting.
Print model here.
We're what we're doing is creating a completely separate function called print model and the compiler
is complaining because it's saying hey you've already got a function call print model that's coming
from the superclass so you can't define an other function called print model with the same function
signature that doesn't work because once again we know that functions are final by default so the compiler
here is assuming that this is not overriding this because right now we can't override it so we have
to add the override keyword to this function.
But we still have a problem because we also have to add open to the superclass.
So when you want something to be extendable or to be able to be overridden you have to use the open
keyword unless it's abstract.
And then when it comes to functions when you actually override an open function in a superclass you
have to use the override keyword.
We don't have any errors now so let's run
and in this case we'll see the model name and this laser printer is Brother One two three four because
the laser printers implementation of print model is being called.
All right so now let's add an abstract function to printer.
So we'll say abstract fun and we'll say we'll call it best selling price
and it returns a devil.
Now let's pretend this function pulls in data from different places and calculates the best selling
price for this printer meaning the one that will generate the most profit.
We have to implement this function in laser printer because it's abstract.
So let's go ahead and do that and we'll say override fun.
Best selling price.
And by pressing Enter intelligent generated the function for us and we just have to replace the body
now.
So we're going to replace it with a constant.
So we don't actually need the body because we can use an expression and we're just going to set this
to one twenty nine point ninety nine so we're going to pretend that you know this function does a bunch
of calculations.
But in our case we'll just say you know what the best selling price for this printer where we can make
the most profit is $129 and 99 cents.
Now because it's a constant we might just store it as a constant somewhere or you know use a property
but we'll pretend it's doing a bunch of stuff and getting this number.
Now the only reason I did this was to show you that just like with class is abstract functions are open
by default because you'll notice that I did not use the open key word here.
And we're not getting any errors but we still have to use the override keyword.
You'll see that if we go like that we'll get an error.
So even though you know the compiler should know that while this is an abstract function so you're overwriting
it.
Abstract functions are open by default.
We have to use that even though we have the open keyword.
So you always have to use override.
But when you're dealing with abstract classes or abstract functions you don't have to use the open keyword.
All right so I'm going to stop the video here and we'll pick this up in the next video.